# Licenses

We use a variety of third party (typically open source) data and occasionally code in our applications.   While each app has details in the About screen, we also list them here for your convenience.

Each of these has links to the original sources.  If you can't get them to work for whatever reason, please let us know, and we'll get you a copy.

**Mandarin Fish** gratefully acknowledges the efforts of developers and the open source community in helping make it a better product.

## CC-CEDICT

*CC-CEDICT* is an open source Chinese dictionary.  You can learn more about it [at their wiki site](https://https://cc-cedict.org/wiki/).  The license is [here](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/).  **Mandarin Fish** does not produce modifications or transformations of the database; if we (or you!) want changes or additions, it's best to submit them through their web site.   If you'd like your own copy of the CC-CEDICT dictionary, you can download it from the above web site, or send us an email at the support address and we'll send you the one we're using (note: ours might be out of date!).  It's a very large, specifically-formatted text file, containing something like 122,000 entries at the time this was written.



## AppState

*AppState* is a fantastic library by Zach Eriksen, which simplifies state management between different app runs and platforms.  It is used under the terms of the MIT license, shown below.  Code is available at [the GitHub page](https://github.com/0xLeif/AppState)



(AppState) MIT License

Copyright (c) 2024 Zach Eriksen

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.



## Pleco

*Pleco* Is the _other_ fish-name-based Chinese Dictionary.  It has a much larger feature set, and we wholeheartedly recommend taking a look at it.  Mandarin Fish was born out of a desire to have some of Pleco's capabilities on other non-iOS Apple platforms that are not presently supported (and the "Mandarin Fish" name is a subtle nod to that).   The "New" (post-2021) HSK vocabulary lists are available on the net in various forms, but Pleco has open sourced probably the cleanest computer-readable form of it out there at the [GitHub here](https://github.com/elkmovie/hsk30/), which **Mandarin Fish** uses as its source for the "New HSK" collections.  It is also provided under the MIT license, also reproduced below.

(Pleco) MIT License

Copyright (c) 2021 Pleco Inc.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.

## hskhsk.com

*hskhsk.com* [GitHub here](https://github.com/glxxyz/hskhsk.com/) has various sanitized lists of Chinese data, learning tools, and resources.  The "Old HSK" lists were obtained from here.   They've also got a link to some "Hanzi Graphs" that connect words to other words in some set that contain the same characters.  I've been looking at doing a similar "mind-map" sort of graph for vision Pro users as a future feature here.

(Old HSK) MIT License

Copyright (c) 2020 Alan Davies

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
